
------------------------------------ Linux Commands ----------------------------------

command structure -> command -options arguments
example - ls -a /home

relative paths - are paths that specify a directory/file relative to the current directory
absolute paths - are paths that start from the root directory (they start with a /)

/  - root
~  - home (logged in user home directory)
.  - represent the current working directory
.. - represent the parent directory

1.date	   - print or set the system date and time 

2.ncal	   - displays a calendar

3.man	   - an interface to the system refrence manuals

4.clear    - to clear the terminal screen

5.type	   - display information about command type
	     (man type => "no manual entry for type", instead use "help type" to know about type)

6.echo     - display a line of text

7.sort     - sort lines of text files

8.which    - to find the exact location of an executable 
	     ( this only works for executables, not built-in shell commands or aliases)
	     example - which ls

9.help	   - to find documentation for those commands who do not have man page for them because they are directly built in to the shell
	     example - help type

10.pwd	   - print working directory (where am I ?) : it will print the path of your current working directory start from the root /

11.ls      - it will list the contents of a directory. 
	     (ls - list contents of current directory)
	     (ls path - list the contents of a specific directory. example- ls /bin)
	     (** options example for ls **  -l: for long lasting format, shows more information. | -a: it will also list any hidden files that begin with .)
		
12.cd      - it is used to change the current working directory, "moving" into another directory.
	     (cd .. - "back up" one level into the parent folder)

13.who     - shows who is logged on

14.history - display the history list with line numbers	

15.touch   - (change file timestamp) 
	     update the access and modification times of each FILE to the current time.
	     a FILE argument that does not exist is created empty, unless -c or -h is supplied.

16.file    - determine file type (Note - to determin the file type 3 test - filesystem tests, magictests and language tests)

17.mkdir   - to create new directories

18.nano    - command line editor (other popular editor - vim and emacs)
	     (in windows to use meta key {M} in nano use alt and ios use esc)

19.rm 	   - remove files from machine

20.rm -d   - to remove empty directories
    or 
   rmdir   

21.mv      - to move files and directories from one location to another |  we can also use move command (mv) to rename the file example mv sample.txt new_sample.txt

22.cp      - to create copies of files and folders

23.chmod   - to change the permision

24.su      - to substitute the user

25.sudo    - we can run specific command as the root user by using the sudo commands

26.chown   - to chnage the owner of a file and the file group owner

27.groups  - to show all gruops

28.addgroup - to create new group

29.adduser  -  to add user in the group
